=head1 NAME

netsend - a speedy filetransfer and network diagnostic program

=head1 SYNOPSIS

netsend [OPTIONS] PROTOCOL MODE { COMMAND | HELP }

=head1 DESCRIPTION


=head1 PROTOCOL

Protocol is one of

=over 4

=item B<tcp>, B<udp>, B<udplite>, B<dccp>, B<sctp> or B<tipc>.

=back

When using tipc, you must also specify a socket type, e.g. B<netsend tipc MODE SOCK_STREAM>.


=head1 MODE

Mode is either B<receive> or B<transmit>.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-r Nn,Nd,Nm,Nf>

    Round trip probes options:

    Nn - Number of iterations of round trip probes. Default is to perform 10 attempts.
         Don't set to less then 5 because measurement results will not very predicating.

    Nd - Size of rtt payload. This is the number of bytes piggybacking (plus the
         netsend rtt header). Default is 500 byte, maybe your mtu minus netsend header
         minus protocol header (tcp, udp) will better fit for your needs.

    Nm - for the round trip time probes netsend calculates a deviation. With this
         flag you can adjust the filter. Default is 4. Lower values drain more probes
         out, so be carefully with this option.

         For example: if you have measured rtt probes of 4, 5, 5, 6 and 15 ms. The
         average is 7. Covariance is 16.4 and deviation is 4.04. If you select 2 here as
         the multiplier, then you filter all rtt probes with higher values then 8.08 (for
         this example you filer 15ms out).

         This will help to discard some nonesense probes who are evoked through cold code
         paths (cache misses, page faults, ...) or network anomalies. Use this option
         carefully!

  -f	forces to don't perform rtt probes but take N milliseconds as average value. With
        this option you can figure out the behaviour of satelite links (e.g you say -D500f)

=item B<-b>

        followed by a number: sets read/write buffer size to use. Default is 8192 for read/write and
	size_of_file_to_send for mmap/sendfile.

=item B<-m>

        followed by a memadvise(2) option: normal, sequential, random, willneed, dontneed, noreuse.

=item B<-p>

	followed by a number: set TCP/UDP/DCCP/SCTP port to use. Default is 6666.

=item B<-P>

        followed by scheduling policy: sched_rr, sched_fifo, sched_batch or sched_other

=item B<-s>

        followed by a setsockopt(2) optname and optval. netsend maps setsockopt levels and
        optlen internally.  running 'netsend -s list' will print a list of all setsockopt
        optnames currently recognized by netsend.

=item B<-T>

        followed by either human or machine: sets output format

=item B<-u>

	followed by the transmit function to use. One of sendfile, mmap, splice or rw.
 	When not specified, rw (read/write) is used.
	Note that not all protocols support all transfer methods, e.g. TIPCs connectionless sockets (SOCK_RDM and SOCK_DGRAM)
	do not support the sendfile system call. Also, the amount of data that can be sent in a single operation may be limited
	by the network protocol used (in this case, you may split data using the -b option on the sender side).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=over 1

B<Listen for incoming SCTP connections, incoming data goes to stdout:>

netsend -T human -v stressful sctp receive

=back

=over 1

B<Send file largefile via TCP with output in machine parseable format:>

netsend -T machine tcp transmit largefile host.example.org

=back

=over 1

B<Receive data via TCP with MD5SIG from peer 10.0.0.1:>

netsend tcp receive -C ffff::10.0.0.1

=back

=over 1

B<Transmit using TCP with MD5SIG to 10.0.0.1 with hybla congestion control:>

netsend -s TCP_CONGESTION hybla tcp transmit -C largefile \ ffff::10.0.0.1

=back

=over 1

B<Receive and transmit a file using TIPC seqpacket socket:>

netsend tipc receive SOCK_SEQPACKET /tmp/recvFile

netsend tipc transmit SOCK_SEQPACKET /path/to/sendFile

=back


=head1 EXIT STATUS

netsend returns a zero exist status if it succeeds.
Non zero is returned in case of failure. Following failure codes
are implemented:

  0 - succeed
  1 - failure in memory handling
  2 - command line option error
  3 - failure which fit in any categories
  4 - network error
  5 - failure in netsend header (maybe corrupted hardware)
  6 - netsend internal error (should never happen[tm])

=head1 BUGS

  please report bugs to <fw-bugs-netsend@strlen.de>.

=head1 AUTHOR

  Hagen Paul Pfeifer
  Florian Westphal

=head1 SEE ALSO

http://netsend.berlios.de
